Design patterns:general repeatable solution to common occuring problem

Creational design patterns- class-creation patterns and object-creational patterns
1. Abstract Factory - Creates an instance of several families of classes
2. Builder - Separates object construction from its representation
3. Factory Method - Creates an instance of several derived classes
4. Object Pool - Avoid expensive acquisition and release of resources by recycling objects that are no longer in use
5. Prototype - A fully initialized instance to be copied or cloned
6. Singleton - A class of which only a single instance can exist

Structural design patterns- Class and Object composition
7. Adapter - Match interfaces of different classes
8. Bridge - Separates an object’s interface from its implementation
9. Composite - A tree structure of simple and composite objects
10. Decorator - Add responsibilities to objects dynamically
11. Facade - A single class that represents an entire subsystem
12. Flyweight - A fine-grained instance used for efficient sharing
13. Private Class Data - Restricts accessor/mutator access
14. Proxy - An object representing another object

Behavioral design patterns-  Class's objects communication
15. Chain of responsibility -A way of passing a request between a chain of objects
16. Command - Encapsulate a command request as an object
17. Interpreter - A way to include language elements in a program
18. Iterator - Sequentially access the elements of a collection
19. Mediator - Defines simplified communication between classes
20. Memento - Capture and restore an object's internal state
21. Null Object - Designed to act as a default value of an object
22. Observer - A way of notifying change to a number of classes
23. State - Alter an object's behavior when its state changes
24. Strategy - Encapsulates an algorithm inside a class
25. Template method - Defer the exact steps of an algorithm to a subclass
26. Visitor - Defines a new operation to a class without change